JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. It is a lightweight data-interchange format that uses human-readable text to store and transmit data objects consisting of attribute–value pairs and arrays (or other serializable values). It is a common data format with diverse uses in electronic data interchange, including that of web applications with servers.

JSON is language-independent, but it is based on a subset of the JavaScript Programming Language Standard ECMA-262 3rd Edition - December 1999. This makes it easy for programmers to read and write JSON data, regardless of the programming language they are using.

JSON data is typically stored in files with the .json extension. It can also be transmitted over a network in HTTP requests and responses.

JSON is a popular choice for data interchange because it is easy to read and write, both for humans and machines. It is also very efficient, making it ideal for transmitting data over a network.

Here is an example of JSON data:

```json
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 30,
  "occupation": "Software Engineer"
}
```

This JSON data object represents a person with the name John Doe, age 30, and occupation Software Engineer.

JSON is used in a variety of applications, including:

* Web applications: JSON is often used to transmit data between web applications and servers. For example, a web application might use JSON to send a user's profile information to the server when they log in.
* Mobile applications: JSON is also commonly used in mobile applications to store and transmit data. For example, a mobile app might use JSON to store a user's shopping cart or to transmit user preferences to the server.
* APIs: JSON is a popular format for APIs, which are interfaces that allow different applications to communicate with each other. For example, a weather API might return JSON data containing the current weather conditions for a given location.

JSON is a versatile and powerful data format that is used in a wide variety of applications. It is easy to use, efficient, and language-independent, making it a popular choice for data interchange.